
                                  Elias Ross
                  1025 NE 73RD Street - Seattle WA 98115 - USA
                               +1-425-466-8702
         http://www.noderunner.net/~genman/ - https://github.com/genman
							genman@noderunner.net

Summary

Architect or technical lead developer with over twenty years of experience
developing distributed enterprise services, database and personal computer
applications, development tools, open source solutions, and technical designs.
Highly capable, self-motivated, team player versed in Java, C++, in both
UNIX and Windows environments. Familiar with wireless applications and
technology integration. Able to speak, read, and write Japanese. 

Employment History


APPLE, INC
Production Operations Software Architect, December 2010-Present

Designed, developed, and deployed the monitoring solution for iAd. iAd
is Apple's ad serving network comprised of thousands of hosts. I was
in charge for providing monitoring for all systems, applications and
third-party services such as Tomcat/JBoss, Oracle, Hadoop, MySQL, MongoDB,
Redis, Memcache, NetScaler, etc. I worked with all teams within iAd to
develop a complete monitoring system. A team of contractors onshore and
offshore support this system and work is ongoing.

I developed the initial monitoring platform using Nagios and Puppet,
and eventually it evolved into a highly scalable and easier to manage
system using RedHat's RHQ platform. RHQ is built on top of JBoss EAP
and uses Cassandra and Oracle Database. The system works across multiple
data centers. On top of RHQ, I developed a custom framework for providing
easy-to-build dashboards for all systems, including business intelligence
and reporting.

I also provided day-to-day assistance to deployment and operations team
members for working with git, Puppet, and packaging tools such as RPM.

I worked closely with RedHat, providing patches and fixes through the
Apple open source process. I am a recognized and prolific contributor
to the RHQ product.

In addition, I worked on designing and developing a Passbook notification
and update solution for iAd designed for supporting millions of devices,
using clustered JMS and Cassandra. I was first to adopt CDI (JEE)
technology and wrote extensions for other team members to expose KPIs
through Java annotations for monitoring purposes.


TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS / LOCATION LOGIC, LLC
Seattle, Washington
Principal Computer Systems Developer, February 2009-December 2010

Key developer and support person for entire Location Positioning System
(LPS) for Verizon Wireless; once the responsibility of a large developer
team. This system processed millions of mobile station transactions a
day without fault.

Developed a prototype GLA ("Global Location Agent") solution for Huawei,
a network technology reseller, in under six weeks. Worked with the
customer in Shenzhen China to test our solution on site.


AUTODESK
San Rafael, California
Principal Software Engineer, September 2006-February 2009

Solutions lead for the Verizon Windows Mobile project. Primary developer
for various new server-side components for Verizon billing systems
integration and service authorization for support of advanced devices.

Introduced to team new technologies for creating better products and
productivity. Technologies included JPA/Hibernate, Maven, JMX, and
distributed network caching.

Wrote a performance test harness for the "user-plane mobile positioning
client", or "UP-MPC" component, a server component used at Verizon,
Sprint, and Alltel.

Member and committer for the Apache Software Foundation.


VERISIGN (ACQUIRED AS M-QUBE)
Boston, Massachusetts
Software Architect, 2002­2006

Developed a distributed premium messaging billing platform for all major U.S.
and many Canadian carriers. Sole author of critical messaging delivery
components for m-Qube, including SMS, IM, SMTP. Helped take the company from
20 people to over 200.
* Designed, built, maintained an SMS/SMPP messaging server called "SMS
Gateway", which delivered \$85 million in premium messaging for 2005.
Created a custom configuration language to support SMPP routing and
connectivity for over 100 connected customers. System was capable of 3000
standard-rate message deliveries a second. Also, designed a billing
server to process and deliver 200-300 billing or subscription
messages per second.
* Developed a "dialog XML" language (similar to voice XML) and plug-in
system for handling stateful conversations for SMS and other messaging services.
* Recognized contributor to the JBoss project, specifically features for
the JBoss MQ (messaging) and JBoss Cache products, such as scheduled and
delayed message delivery which are now standard JMS features.


OPENWAVE
Bellevue, Washington
Senior Software Developer, 2000­2002

Responsible for creating components to support enterprise-level services
for determining mobile handset presence and location. Responsible for own
unit-testing, end-to-end testing, technical requirements and design
documents.
* Assisted developers in two teams simultaneously; often reassigned
to support tasks that were behind schedule. Mentored UI team in
UNIX, PHP, JSP, and Java.
* Completed two patent applications on document compression (both awarded 
in 2005) and received recognition for three other invention submissions.
* Created an XML pull-parser and XML-RPC library, to support streamed
document delivery. See http://e-xml.sf.net

Software Developer 1999­2000

Used and leveraged existing components to build an instant messaging
application supporting mobile presence. Used mobile protocols and network
simulators for testing on SS7 networks.  Used UML and the Unified Process.


BELLEVUE COMMUNITY COLLEGE
Kirkland, Washington
Instructor, 2001­2002

Computer instruction, teaching a class on UNIX. Responsible for creation
of course materials and content.


CATDADDY GAMES
Bellevue, Washington
Software Developer, 1998­2000

Responsible for programming and helping deliver various games and building a
3D game engine. Helped complete the game "Full Strength Challenge" as one of
two developers.

* Sole and lead developer for UI, network components, sound, input, and 3D
model export utilities.
* Ported Windows network match server to Linux.
* Designed and a implemented prototype 3D driving and battle game.


BERLITZ
Sendai, Japan
Teacher, 1998

Taught private English lessons to business clients. Learned the Berlitz
language teaching approach.


STARWAVE (PRESENTLY GO.COM)
Bellevue, Washington
Intern, 1996­1997

Worked with the online commerce division to develop a database system for
commerce transactions. Later transferred to work with online fantasy sports
games (pre-Servlet, but Java-based). Sole author of utility software for
scheduling services, live systems monitoring, bug-tracking, etc. Learned
Java, Perl, ASP, SQL, etc.


STEEL SILHOUETTES
Seattle, Washington
Computer Consultant, 1994­1997

Web site authoring, custom software for industrial machine cutting
machine, systems troubleshooting.


Education

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
Seattle, Washington
1995­1999

Awarded Bachelor of Science degree. Major in applied computation math science.

TOHOKU UNIVERSITY
Sendai, Japan
1997­1998

Exchange student in Japan in the engineering school. Part-time
research in Japanese character recognition, but mostly focused on
language skills.


Technologies

[Java] 15 years. JEE including JPA, CDI; Maven/Gradle. 
[Ver Control] git, Subversion, Perforce, CVS, Clearquest, VSS.
[Puppet] 4 years, Ruby templates, large deployments and config management.
[C/C++] 4 years. Solaris cc, gcc, VC++, STL, POSIX.
[Perl] 4 years experience.
[JavaScript] 2+ years, mostly Rhino scripting and some UI.
[Python] 1 year experience.
[Cassandra] 1 year, deployment and schema design.
[Hadoop] 3 years, deployment, monitoring; Hive, Oozie, Flume.
[SQL] 4 years, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, stored procedures.
[UNIX] 15+ years. Linux (OEL/RHEL 5/6), Solaris, BSD variants.
[Networks] 4 years. TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMPPv3, UDP.
[Shells] 6 years. Bourne, BASH.

Others: SNMP, Hibernate, Windows, XML, OOP, UML, LDAP, make, ant, Pascal,
Scheme, Ruby, ASP, DirectX, 3D Max, Assembler and compiler design.


Activities and Interests
    Cooking
    Road cycling and touring
    Sea kayaking
    Japanese culture and language, volunteering at anime conventions
    Hiking and mountaineering
    Backcountry skiing
    Free Software
